@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex tl


@node Events
@subsection Events

G-Golf Gdk Events low level API.@*
Events — Functions for handling events from the window system


@subheading Class

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{<gdk-event>}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures, Accessors and Methods

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{!event}

@item @ref{!button}
@item @ref{!click-count}
@item @ref{!coords}
@item @ref{!x}
@item @ref{!y}
@item @ref{!keycode}
@item @ref{!keyval}
@item @ref{!keyname}
@item @ref{!root-coords}
@item @ref{!root-x}
@item @ref{!root-x}
@item @ref{!state}
@item @ref{!time}
@item @ref{!window}
@item @ref{!type}
@item @ref{!changed-mask}
@item @ref{!new-window-state}

@item @ref{gdk-event-get-button}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-click-count}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-coords}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-keycode}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-keyval}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-root-coords}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-state}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-time}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-window}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-event-type}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-changed-mask}
@item @ref{gdk-event-get-new-window-state}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Types and Values

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{%gdk-event-type}
@item @ref{%gdk-window-state}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Struct Hierarchy

@c @indentedblock
@c GIBaseInfo           	       		@*
@c @ @ +--- GIRegisteredTypeInfo  		@*
@c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  +--- GIEnumInfo
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Description

This section describes functions dealing with events from the window
system.


@subheading Classes

@anchor{<gdk-event>}
@deftp Class <gdk-event>

The superclass of all Gdk type of event. Its slots are:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @emph{event}
#:accessor !event @*
#:init-keyword #:event

A pointer to a @code{GdkEvent}.
@end table
@end indentedblock

@end deftp


@subheading Procedures, Accessors and Methods

Note: in this section, the @var{event} argument is [must be] a pointer to
a @code{GdkEvent}.


@anchor{!event}
@deffn Accessor !event (inst <gdk-event>)

Returns the content of the @code{event} slot for @var{inst}.
@end deffn


@anchor{!button}
@anchor{!click-count}
@anchor{!coords}
@anchor{!x}
@anchor{!y}
@anchor{!keycode}
@anchor{!keyval}
@anchor{!keyname}
@anchor{!root-coords}
@anchor{!root-x}
@anchor{!root-y}
@anchor{!state}
@anchor{!time}
@anchor{!window}
@anchor{!type}
@anchor{!changed-mask}
@anchor{!new-window-state}
@deffn Method !button (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !click-count (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !coords (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !x (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !y (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !keycode (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !keyval (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !keyname (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !root-coords (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !root-x (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !root-y (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !state (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !time (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !window (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !type (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !changed-mask (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !new-window-state (inst <gdk-event>)

Respectively returns the scheme representation of the content of the
@var{inst} event (struct) element - refered to by its name - or #f if
the event (struct) does not deliver the element.

The event (struct) elements are:


@indentedblock
@table @code

@item @emph{button}
The button number of the event.

@item @emph{click-count}
The click-count of the event.

@item @emph{coords}
The list of the x and y window relative coordinates of the event.

@item @emph{x}
The x window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{y}
The y window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{keycode}
The raw code (also called hardware keycode) of the key that was pressed
of released.

@item @emph{keyval}
The key value that was pressed of released (See the gdk/gdkkeysyms.h
header file for a complete list of GDK key codes.

@item @emph{keyname}
The key name that was pressed of released (There is actually no such
element in any (gdk) event, this method calls @ref{gdk-keyval-name} on
the keyval of the event).

@item @emph{root-coords}
The list of the x and y root window relative coordinates of the event.

@item @emph{root-x}
The root x window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{root-y}
The root y window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{state}
A list representing the state of the modifier keys (e.g. Control, Shift
and Alt) and the pointer buttons (see the @ref{gdk-event-get-state}
description for some more information about @code{GdkModifierType}).

@item @emph{time}
The time of the event in milliseconds.

@item @emph{window}
The (a pointer to the) @code{GdkWindow} of the event.

@item @emph{type}
The type of the event.

@item @emph{changed-mask}
The mask specifying what flags have changed.

@item @emph{new-window-state}
The new window state, a combination of @ref{%gdk-window-state} bits.

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-button}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-button event

Returns an integer or #f.

Extracts and returns the button number from @var{event}. If @var{event}
did not deliver a button number, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-click-count}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-click-count event

Returns an integer or #f.

Extracts and returns the click count from @var{event}. If @var{event}
did not deliver a click count, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-coords}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-coords event

Returns a list or #f.

Extracts and returns a list of the x and y window relative coordinates
from @var{event}. If @var{event} did not deliver window coordinates, it
returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-keycode}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-keycode event

Returns an integer or #f.

Extracts and returns the hardware keycode from @var{event}. If @var{event}
did not deliver a hardware keycode, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-keyval}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-keyval event

Returns an integer or #f.

Extracts and returns the keyval from @var{event}. If @var{event} did not
deliver a key symbol, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-root-coords}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-root-coords event

Returns a list or #f.

Extracts and returns a list of the x and y root window relative
coordinates from @var{event}. If @var{event} did not deliver root window
coordinates, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-state}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-state event

Returns a (possibly empty) list of
@code{GdkModifierType}@footnote{G-Golf imports the
@code{GdkModifierType} from the Gdk namespace as a <gi-flag> instance,
which you may get executing @code{(gi-cache-ref 'flag
'gdk-modifier-type)}, then visualize running @code{describe} on the
former result. Please refer to the @uref{@value{UGDK-ModifierType}, enum
GdkModifierType} section of the Gdk Reference Manual for a complete list
and description of all modifier bit-flags.} or #f.
 
Obtains and returns the list of (the scheme representation of)
@code{GdkModifierType} for @var{event}. If @var{event} did not contain a
@samp{state} field, it returns #f.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-time}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-time event

Returns an integer.

Obtains and returns the time stamp for @var{event}, if there is one,
otherwise, it returns @code{GDK_CURRENT_TIME} (and so does it if
@var{event} is @code{%null-pointer}).
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-window}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-window event

Returns a pointer.

Extracts and returns (a pointer to) the @code{GdkWindow} associated with
@var{event}.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-event-type}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-event-type event

Returns the event type (symbol) name.

Obtains and returns the @ref{%gdk-event-type} (symbol) name for
@var{event}.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-changed-mask}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-changed-mask event

Returns a list of flags.

Obtains and returns a list of @ref{%gdk-window-state} flags that have
changed for @var{event}.
@end deffn


@anchor{gdk-event-get-new-window-state}
@deffn Procedure gdk-event-get-new-window-state event

Returns a list of flags.

Obtains and returns a list of @ref{%gdk-window-state} flags for
@var{event}.
@end deffn


@subheading Types and Values


@anchor{%gdk-event-type}
@defivar <gi-enum> %gdk-event-type

Specifies the type of the event.

Do not confuse these events with the signals that GTK+ widgets
emit. Although many of these events result in corresponding signals
being emitted, the events are often transformed or filtered along the
way.

An instance of @code{<gi-enum>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GdkEventType}.

@indentedblock
@emph{gi-name}: GdkEventType @*
@emph{scm-name}: gdk-event-type @*
@emph{enum-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code

@item nothing
A special code to indicate a null event.

@item delete

The window manager has requested that the toplevel window be hidden or
destroyed, usually when the user clicks on a special icon in the title
bar.

@item destroy
The window has been destroyed.

@item expose
All or part of the window has become visible and needs to be redrawn.

@item motion-notify
The pointer (usually a mouse) has moved.

@item button-press
A mouse button has been pressed.

@item 2button-press
A mouse button has been double-clicked (clicked twice within a short
period of time). Note that each click also generates a button-press
event.

@item double-button-press
Alias for 2button-press, added in 3.6.

@item 3button-press
A mouse button has been clicked 3 times in a short period of time. Note
that each click also generates a button-press event.

@item triple-button-press
Alias for 3button-press, added in 3.6.

@item button-release
A mouse button has been released.

@item key-press
A key has been pressed.

@item key-release
A key has been released.

@item enter-notify
The pointer has entered the window.

@item leave-notify
The pointer has left the window.

@item focus-change
The keyboard focus has entered or left the window.

@item configure
The size, position or stacking order of the window has changed. Note
that GTK+ discards these events for window-child windows.

@item map
The window has been mapped.

@item unmap
The window has been unmapped.

@item property-notify
A property on the window has been changed or deleted.

@item selection-clear

The application has lost ownership of a selection.

@item selection-request
Another application has requested a selection.

@item selection-notify
A selection has been received.

@item proximity-in
An input device has moved into contact with a sensing surface (e.g. a
touchscreen or graphics tablet).

@item proximity-out
An input device has moved out of contact with a sensing surface.

@item drag-enter
The mouse has entered the window while a drag is in progress.

@item drag-leave
The mouse has left the window while a drag is in progress.

@item drag-motion
The mouse has moved in the window while a drag is in progress.

@item drag-status
The status of the drag operation initiated by the window has changed.

@item drop-start
A drop operation onto the window has started.

@item drop-finished
The drop operation initiated by the window has completed.

@item client-event
A message has been received from another application.

@item visibility-notify
The window visibility status has changed.

@item scroll
The scroll wheel was turned

@item window-state
The state of a window has changed. See GdkWindowState for the possible
window states

@item setting
A setting has been modified.

@item owner-change
The owner of a selection has changed. This event type was added in 2.6

@item grab-broken
A pointer or keyboard grab was broken. This event type was added in 2.8.

@item damage
The content of the window has been changed. This event type was added in
2.14.

@item touch-begin
A new touch event sequence has just started. This event type was added
in 3.4.

@item touch-update
A touch event sequence has been updated. This event type was added in
3.4.

@item touch-end
A touch event sequence has finished. This event type was added in 3.4.

@item touch-cancel
A touch event sequence has been canceled. This event type was added in
3.4.

@item touchpad-swipe
A touchpad swipe gesture event, the current state is determined by its
phase field. This event type was added in 3.18.

@item touchpad-pinch
A touchpad pinch gesture event, the current state is determined by its
phase field. This event type was added in 3.18.

@item pad-button-press
A tablet pad button press event. This event type was added in 3.22.

@item pad-button-release
A tablet pad button release event. This event type was added in 3.22.

@item pad-ring
A tablet pad axis event from a "ring". This event type was added in
3.22.

@item pad-strip
A tablet pad axis event from a "strip". This event type was added in
3.22.

@item pad-group-mode
A tablet pad group mode change. This event type was added in 3.22.

@item event-last
marks the end of the GdkEventType enumeration. Added in 2.18

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar


@anchor{%gdk-window-state}
@defivar <gi-flag> %gdk-window-state

Specifies the state of a toplevel window.

An instance of @code{<gi-flag>}, who's members are the scheme
representation of the @code{GdkWindowState}.

@indentedblock
@emph{gi-name}: GdkWindowState @*
@emph{scm-name}: gdk-window-state @*
@emph{enum-set}:
@indentedblock
@table @code

@item withdrawn
The window is not shown.

@item iconified
The window is minimized.

@item maximized
The window is maximized.

@item sticky
The window is sticky

@item fullscreen
The window is maximized without decorations.

@item above
The window is kept above other windows.

@item below
The window is kept below other windows.

@item focused
The window is presented as focused (with active decorations).

@item tiled
The window is in a tiled state, Since 3.10. Since 3.22.23, this is
deprecated in favor of per-edge information.

@item top-tiled
Whether the top edge is tiled, Since 3.22.23

@item top-resizable
Whether the top edge is resizable, Since 3.22.23


@item right-tiled
Whether the right edge is tiled, Since 3.22.23

@item right-resizable
Whether the right edge is resizable, Since 3.22.23

@item bottom-tiled
Whether the bottom edge is tiled, Since 3.22.23

@item bottom-resizable
Whether the bottom edge is resizable, Since 3.22.23

@item left-tiled
Whether the left edge is tiled, Since 3.22.23

@item left-resizable
Whether the left edge is resizable, Since 3.22.23

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end indentedblock
@end defivar
