@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node Boxed Types
@subsection Boxed Types

G-Golf GObject Boxed Types low level API.@*
Boxed Types — A mechanism to wrap opaque C structures registered by the
type system.


@subheading Procedures

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{g-boxed-free}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Types and Values

@c @indentedblock
@c @table @code
@c @item @ref{%g-type-fundamental-flags}
@c @end table
@c @end indentedblock


@c @subheading Object Hierarchy

@c @indentedblock
@c GBoxed           	       @*
@c @ @ +--- GValue	       @*
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Description

GBoxed is a generic wrapper mechanism for arbitrary C structures. The
only thing the type system needs to know about the structures is how to
copy them (a GBoxedCopyFunc) and how to free them (a GBoxedFreeFunc) —
beyond that they are treated as opaque chunks of memory.

Please read the @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Boxed-Types}, Boxed Types} section
from the GObject reference manual for a complete description.


@subheading Procedures

@c Note: in this section, the @var{value} arguments are [must be] pointers
@c to a @code{GValue}.


@anchor{g-boxed-free}
@deffn Procedure g-boxed-free g-type pointer

Returns nothing.

Frees the boxed structure at @var{pointer}, which is of type
@var{g-type}.
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values

