@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


G-Golf GObject modules are defined in the @code{gobject} subdirectory,
such as @code{(g-golf gobject enum-flags)}.

Where you may load these modules individually, the easiest way to use
G-Golf is to import its main module, which imports and re-exports the
public interface of (oop goops), (system foreign), all G-Golf support
and G-Golf GObject modules:

@lisp
(use-modules (g-golf gobject))
@end lisp

G-Golf GObject low level API modules correspond to a GObject section,
though they might be some exception in the future.


@menu

* Type Information::  The GLib Runtime type identification and management system.
* GObject_::  The base object type.
* Enumeration and Flag Types::  Enumeration and Flag Types.
* Boxed Types:: A mechanism to wrap opaque C structures registered by the type system.
* Generic Values::  A polymorphic type that can hold values of any other type.
* Parameters and Values::  Standard Parameter and Value Types.
* GParamSpec::  Metadata for parameter specifications.
* Closures::  Functions as first-class objects.
* Signals::  A means for customization of object behaviour and a general
  purpose notification mechanism

@end menu

@include cr-gobject-type-info.texi
@include cr-gobject-gobject.texi
@include cr-gobject-enum-flags.texi
@include cr-gobject-boxed-types.texi
@include cr-gobject-gen-vals.texi
@include cr-gobject-params-vals.texi
@include cr-gobject-param-spec.texi
@include cr-gobject-closures.texi
@include cr-gobject-signals.texi
