@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


G-Golf GObject Introspection modules are defined in the @code{gi}
subdirectory, such as @code{(g-golf gi repository)}.

Where you may load these modules individually, the easiest way to use
G-Golf GObject Introspection is to import the @code{g-golf} module,
which imports and re-exports the public interface of all modules used
and defined by G-Golf (for a complete list, visit its source
definition):

@lisp
(use-modules (g-golf))
@end lisp

Most G-Golf GObject Introspection modules correspond to a GObject
Intropection (manual) section, but there are some exceptions, such as
@code{init} and @code{utils} @dots{}


@menu

@subheading GIRepository

* Repository::            GObject Introspection repository manager.
* Common Types::          GObject Introspection common types. 
* Base Info::             Base struct for all GITypelib structs.
* Callable Info::	  Struct representing a callable.
* Signal Info::		  Struct representing a signal.
* Function Info::	  Struct representing a function.
* Registered Type Info::  Struct representing a struct with a GType.
* Enum Info::		  Struct representing an enumeration and its values.
* Struct Info::	  	  Struct representing a C structure.
* Union Info::	  	  Struct representing a union.
* Object Info::	  	  Struct representing a GObject.
* Interface Info::  	  Struct representing a GInterface.
* Arg Info::		  Struct representing an argument.
* Constant Info::	  Struct representing a constant.
* Field Info::		  Struct representing a struct or a union field.
* Property Info::	  Struct representing a property.
* Type Info::		  Struct representing a type.

@subheading GITypelib

* Typelib::		  Layout and accessors for typelib.
* Utilities::		  (G-Golf) Utilities.

@end menu


@include cr-gi-repository.texi
@include cr-gi-common-types.texi
@include cr-gi-base-info.texi
@include cr-gi-callable-info.texi
@include cr-gi-signal-info.texi
@include cr-gi-function-info.texi
@include cr-gi-registered-type-info.texi
@include cr-gi-enum-info.texi
@include cr-gi-struct-info.texi
@include cr-gi-union-info.texi
@include cr-gi-object-info.texi
@include cr-gi-interface-info.texi
@include cr-gi-arg-info.texi
@include cr-gi-constant-info.texi
@include cr-gi-field-info.texi
@include cr-gi-property-info.texi
@include cr-gi-type-info.texi
@include cr-gi-typelib.texi
@include cr-gi-utilities.texi
