@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


G-Golf Glib modules are defined in the @code{glib} subdirectory, such as
@code{(g-golf glib main-event-loop)}.

Where you may load these modules individually, the easiest way to use
G-Golf Glib is to import its main module, which imports and re-exports
the public interface of (oop goops), (system foreign), all G-Golf
support and G-Golf Glib modules:

@lisp
(use-modules (g-golf glib))
@end lisp

G-Golf Glib low level API modules correspond to a Glib section,
though they might be some exception in the future.


@menu

* Memory Allocation:: General memory handling.
* The Main Event Loop:: Manages all available sources of events.
* IO Channels::  Portable support for using files, pipes and sockets.
* Miscellaneous Utility Functions:: A selection of portable utility functions.
* UNIX-specific utilities and integration:: Pipes, signal handling.
* Doubly-Linked Lists:: Linked lists that can be iterated in both directions
* Singly-Linked Lists:: Linked lists that can be iterated in one direction
* Quarks:: a2-way association between a string and a unique integer identifier
@end menu


@include cr-glib-mem-alloc.texi
@include cr-glib-main-event-loop.texi
@include cr-glib-io-channels.texi
@include cr-glib-misc-util-funcs.texi
@include cr-glib-unix-utils.texi
@include cr-glib-glist.texi
@include cr-glib-gslist.texi
@include cr-glib-quarks.texi
