@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2020  - 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


G-Golf High Level API modules are defined in the @code{hl-api}
subdirectory, such as @code{(g-golf hl-api gobject)}.

Where you may load these modules individually, the easiest way to use
the G-Golf High Level API is to import the @code{hl-api} module: it
imports and re-exports the public interface of (oop goops), some G-Golf
support modules and all G-Golf High Level API modules:

@lisp
(use-modules (g-golf hl-api))
@end lisp

As stated in the introduction, G-Golf high level API (main) objective is
to make (imported) GOBject classes and methods available using GOOPS,
the Guile Object Oriented System (@pxref{GOOPS,,, guile, The GNU Guile
Reference Manual}), in a way that is largely inspired by
@uref{@value{UGG}, Guile-Gnome}.

@c Unlike Guile-Gnome though, G-Golf won't register new GObject subclasses,
@c at least not in its first version, in an attempt to allow and @samp{play
@c with} multiple inheritance.


@menu

* GType:: The base of the GObject type system.
* GObject__:: The G-Golf integration with the GObject object system.
* Closure:: The G-Golf integration with GObject Closures.
* Function:: The G-Golf GI function and argument high level API.
@c * Object:: The G-Golf GI object import high level API.
* Import_:: The G-Golf GI import interfaces.
* Utilities__:: G-Golf additinal utilities.

@end menu


@include cr-hl-api-gtype.texi
@include cr-hl-api-gobject.texi
@include cr-hl-api-closure.texi
@include cr-hl-api-function.texi
@c @include cr-hl-api-object.texi
@include cr-hl-api-import.texi
@include cr-hl-api-utils.texi
