@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex tl


@node Events_
@subsection Events

G-Golf Events high level API.@*
The G-Golf integration with Gdk Events.


@subheading Class

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{<gdk-event>}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Accessors and Methods

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{!event}

@item @ref{!button}
@item @ref{!click-count}
@item @ref{!coords}
@item @ref{!x}
@item @ref{!y}
@item @ref{!keycode}
@item @ref{!keyval}
@item @ref{!keyname}
@item @ref{!root-coords}
@item @ref{!root-x}
@item @ref{!root-x}
@item @ref{!state}
@item @ref{!time}
@item @ref{!window}
@item @ref{!type}
@item @ref{!changed-mask}
@item @ref{!new-window-state}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@c @subheading Types and Values

@c @indentedblock
@c @table @code
@c @item @ref{%gdk-event-type}
@c @item @ref{%gdk-window-state}
@c @end table
@c @end indentedblock


@c @subheading Struct Hierarchy

@c @indentedblock
@c GIBaseInfo           	       		@*
@c @ @ +--- GIRegisteredTypeInfo  		@*
@c @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  +--- GIEnumInfo
@c @end indentedblock


@subheading Description

This section describes classes, procedures, accessors and methods for
the G-Golf integration with events from the window system.


@subheading Classes

@anchor{<gdk-event>}
@deftp Class <gdk-event>

The superclass of all Gdk type of event. Its slots are:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @emph{event}
#:accessor !event @*
#:init-keyword #:event

A pointer to a @code{GdkEvent}.
@end table
@end indentedblock

@end deftp


@subheading Accessors and Methods

@c Note: in this section, the @var{event} argument is [must be] a
@c pointer to a @code{GdkEvent}.


@anchor{!event}
@deffn Accessor !event (inst <gdk-event>)

Returns the content of the @code{event} slot for @var{inst}.
@end deffn


@anchor{!button}
@anchor{!click-count}
@anchor{!coords}
@anchor{!x}
@anchor{!y}
@anchor{!keycode}
@anchor{!keyval}
@anchor{!keyname}
@anchor{!root-coords}
@anchor{!root-x}
@anchor{!root-y}
@anchor{!state}
@anchor{!time}
@anchor{!window}
@anchor{!type}
@anchor{!changed-mask}
@anchor{!new-window-state}
@deffn Method !button (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !click-count (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !coords (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !x (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !y (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !keycode (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !keyval (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !keyname (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !root-coords (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !root-x (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !root-y (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !state (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !time (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !window (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !type (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !changed-mask (inst <gdk-event>)
@deffnx Method !new-window-state (inst <gdk-event>)

Respectively returns the scheme representation of the content of the
@var{inst} event (struct) element - refered to by its name - or #f if
the event (struct) does not deliver the element.

The event (struct) elements are:

@indentedblock
@table @code

@item @emph{button}
The button number of the event.

@item @emph{click-count}
The click-count of the event.

@item @emph{coords}
The list of the x and y window relative coordinates of the event.

@item @emph{x}
The x window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{y}
The y window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{keycode}
The raw code (also called hardware keycode) of the key that was pressed
of released.

@item @emph{keyval}
The key value that was pressed of released (See the gdk/gdkkeysyms.h
header file for a complete list of GDK key codes.

@item @emph{keyname}
The key name that was pressed of released (There is actually no such
element in any (gdk) event, this method calls @ref{gdk-keyval-name} on
the keyval of the event).

@item @emph{root-coords}
The list of the x and y root window relative coordinates of the event.

@item @emph{root-x}
The root x window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{root-y}
The root y window relative coordinate of the event.

@item @emph{state}
A list representing the state of the modifier keys (e.g. Control, Shift
and Alt) and the pointer buttons (see the @ref{gdk-event-get-state}
description for some more information about @code{GdkModifierType}).

@item @emph{time}
The time of the event in milliseconds.

@item @emph{window}
The (a pointer to the) @code{GdkWindow} of the event.

@item @emph{type}
The type of the event.

@item @emph{changed-mask}
The mask specifying what flags have changed.

@item @emph{new-window-state}
The new window state, a combination of @ref{%gdk-window-state} bits.

@end table
@end indentedblock
@end deffn


@c @subheading Types and Values
