@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

This manual describes how to use G-Golf.  It relates particularly to
G-Golf version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Contributors to this manual::
* Join the GNU Project::
* G-Golf License::
@end menu


@node Contributors to this manual
@unnumberedsec Contributors to this Manual

Like G-Golf itself, the G-Golf reference manual is a living
entity. Right now, the contributor to this manual is:

@itemize @bullet
@item David Pirotte
@end itemize

who is also the author and maintainer of G-Golf.

You are most welcome to join and help.  Visit G-Golf's web site at
@uref{@value{UG-GOLF}} to find out how to get involved.


@node Join the GNU Project
@unnumberedsec Join the GNU Project
@cindex the GNU Project

GNU G-Golf is part of the GNU Operating System, developed by the GNU
Project. To learn more about Free (libre) Software, you can read
and please share @uref{@value{UGNU-PHILOSOPHY}, this page}.

If you are the author of an awesome program and want to join us in
writing Free (libre) Software, please consider making it an official GNU
program and become a GNU Maintainer. You can find instructions on how to
do this @uref{@value{UGNU-EVALUATION}, here}.

You don't have a program to contribute? Look at all the other ways you
may @uref{@value{UGNU-HELP}, help}.


@node G-Golf License
@unnumberedsec The G-Golf License
@cindex copying
@cindex GPL
@cindex license

GNU G-Golf is Free Software.  GNU G-Golf is copyrighted, not public
domain, and there are restrictions on its distribution or
redistribution:

@itemize @bullet
@item
GNU G-Golf and supporting files are published under the terms of the GNU
Lesser General Public License version 3 or later.  See the file
@file{LICENSE}.

@item
This manual is published under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
License (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}).
@end itemize

You must be aware there is no warranty whatsoever for GNU G-Golf.  This
is described in full in the license.


@c Local Variables:
@c TeX-master: "g-golf.texi"
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
@c End:
