@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2020 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.

G-Golf will let you import and work with any GObject-Introspectable
GNOME library@footnote{In its compiled form, a GObject-Introspectable
GNOME library is called a @uref{@value{UGI-OVERVIEW}, Typelib} - a
binary, readonly, memory-mappable database containing reflective
information about a GObject library.}. Since we need to make a choice
among so many, to guide new comers and get them started with G-Golf,
let's pick-up @uref{@value{UGTK}, Gtk}, and show how to
@uref{@value{UGTK-WEB}, Create interfaces that users just love}.

@menu
* Hello World!:: Following the tradition, we will first look at the
  often seen @samp{Hello World!} familiar, friendly greeting program.
* Selective Import:: In this section, we will show how you may and
  should only selectively import the namespace components you need, not
  the all namespace.
* Scripting:: We will continue with a section on @samp{Scripting}, while
  revisiting our @samp{Hello World!} code, maybe some other example(s)
  and exploring a few more @uref{@value{UGTK}, Gtk} widgets.
* Building Applications:: We will proceed with a section describing the
  necessary and/or recommended steps to build applications,
* G-Golf on Mobile Devices:: To conclude, we will look at and show how
  G-Golf may also run and run your applications on (some) mobile
  devices.
@end menu


@include ug-gswg-hello-world.texi
@include ug-gswg-selective-import.texi


@node Scripting
@subsection Scripting

@c (also @pxref{Guile Scripting,,, guile, The GNU Guile Reference
@c Manual})

@node Building Applications
@subsection Building Applications
@c @include ug-gswg-building-applications.texi


@node G-Golf on Mobile Devices
@subsection G-Golf on Mobile Devices
