@c -*-texinfo-*-

@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex ei


@node GObject (1)
@subsection GObject

G-Golf GObject interfaces.@*
The G-Golf integration with the GLib Object System.


@subheading Classes

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{<gobject>}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Procedures
@c, Accessors and Methods

@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{gobject-class?}
@end table
@end indentedblock


@subheading Description

GObject@footnote{The name GObject, depending on the context, can
actually be used and refer to the @uref{@value{UGOBJECT}, GLib Object
System} language system as a all, or be used and refer to the
fundamental type implementation, the @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-GObject},
base object type}, upon which GNOME libraries object hierarchies are
based.} is the GLib Object System.

The @uref{@value{UGOBJECT}, GLib Object System} - a C based
object-oriented framework and APIs@ - is composed of three principal
elements: (1) GType@footnote{The name GType, depending on the context,
can actually be used and refer to the The
@uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Concepts-GType}, GLib Dynamic Type System}, or be
used and refer to the type it denotes, a unique @abbr{ID, Identifier} -
an @code{unsigned-long} to be precise.}, the lower-level
@uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Concepts-GType}, GLib Dynamic Type System}, (2)
GObject, the @uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Concepts-GObject}, base object type}
and (3) the GObject closures and signals
@uref{@value{UGOBJECT-Concepts-Signals}, messaging system}.

All the GNOME libraries that use the GLib type system inherit from
@uref{@value{UGOBJECT-GObject}, GObject}, the base object type, which
provides methods for object construction and destruction, property
access methods, and signal support.

G-Golf uses GOOPS@footnote{The Guile Object Oriented System
(@pxref{GOOPS,,, guile, The GNU Guile Reference Manual}). If you haven't
done so already, please make sure you read both the @ref{Naming
Conventions} and @ref{GOOPS Notes and Conventions} sections.} and
defines the @ref{<gobject>} class, from which imported GNOME libraries
will inherit, as their class hierarchy is being built in Guile Scheme.

@c uses the Metaobject Protocol@footnote{The
@c @abbr{MOP, the Metaobject Protocol} (@pxref{The Metaobject Protocol,,,
@c guile, The GNU Guile Reference Manual}).}


@subheading Classes

@anchor{<gobject>}
@deftp Class <gobject>

The base class of the GLib Object System.

@end deftp


@anchor{gobject-class?}
@deffn Procedure gobject-class? val

Returns #t if @var{val} is a class and if @ref{<gobject>} is a member
of its class precedence list. Otherwise, it returns #f.
@end deffn
