@c -*-texinfo-*-

@c This is part of the GNU G-Golf Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file g-golf.texi for copying conditions.


@c @defindex ei


@node Events
@subsection Events

G-Golf Events interfaces.@*
Handling events from the window system.


@c @ @ @sup{_} @strong{Special Note}

@sp 1
@center @sup{_} @sc{Special Note} @sup{_}

Most of the numerous, important and sometimes radical changes in between
@uref{@value{UGTK3}, Gtk-3.0}/@uref{@value{UGDK3}, Gdk-3.0} and
@uref{@value{UGTK}, Gtk-4.0}/@uref{@value{UGDK},
Gdk-4.0}/@uref{@value{UGSK}, Gsk-4.0} have had no impact on G-Golf. And
by most, we actually mean all but one: the GdkEvent and its API.

For this reason, this section is split/organized in two subheading,
namely @samp{In Gdk-3.0} and @samp{In Gdk-4.0}, how creative :), that
expose their respective G-Golf interfaces.

@c s@footnote{On purpose, to avoid to un-usefully increase the depth of the
@c table of content, which incidentally might also confuse users (while
@c accessing the table of content), since it is tually read the special
@c note that introduces this section,}

@c @center @sup{_} @sc{End of Special Note} @sup{_}
@sp 1


@ @ @sup{_} @strong{In Gdk-3.0}

In @uref{@value{UGDK3}, Gdk-3.0}, a GdkEvent contains a union of all of
the event types. Data fields may be accessed either directly, direct
access to GdkEvent structs, or using accessors (but not all data fields
have an accessor).

In G-Golf however GdkEvent is a class, with an event slot - holding a
pointer the Gdk event - all other slots are virtual and define an
accessor, which is the only way users may retrieve data fields.


@ @ @sup{_} @strong{In Gdk-4.0}

In @uref{@value{UGDK}, Gdk-4.0}, GdkEvent is a class@footnote{From a GI
point of view - internally, it is a C struct.}. GdkEvent structs are
opaque and immutable. Direct access to GdkEvent structs is no longer
possible in GTK 4. All event fields have accessors.

In G-Golf - as in Gdk-4.0 GdkEvent is a class - no special treatment is
performed anymore. In particular, no virtual slot is defined and users
must access the GdkEvent structs data fields using the accesors provided
by Gdk-4.0.
